# Introduction

In contemporary times, Vibe has become a crucial element of our daily lives. But what's interesting is - it is not limited to general slang, but also the technical domain.

Even computer scientists and coders use the term "Vibe Coding." But what exactly does it mean? It’s a new slang in the tech domain which can be a boon for developers or bane for the ones who pay less attention to detail. Intrigued?

Read this article further to understand what it is and how you can practice it in step-by-step process, utilizing its benefits. If you are a developer, you will gain clarity about how you can utilize it by combining it with traditional coding methods.

# What is Vibe Coding?

The co-founder of OpenAI, Andrej Karpathy, introduced the term "Vibe Coding" on X. He defined it as a new kind of coding in which you utilize LLMs to create web pages and software applications. But what's interesting is - you focus on the vibes!

This means if you have little to no prior technical knowledge, you can build basic websites or apps just by giving natural language prompts to an AI-powered coding platform.

Rather than writing the code, describe what you want, and the AI tool will generate the code for you. It's not just about code generation; it can even design the whole web page, website, or whatever you want to build. Additionally, you can describe the required changes if they don't fit the vibe.

Sounds interesting?

Let us help you understand how you can utilize Vibe Coding AI platforms.

# How Does Vibe Coding Work?

Vibe coding involves communicating your idea to AI-powered platforms by just typing or speaking in a few sentences. Let us understand the basic process of creating something like a website through Vibe Coding.

**Step 1:** Select an AI-powered tool like Fenado or Lovable.

**Step 2:** Create an account to begin the process.

**Step 3:** Describe your idea by either typing or speaking. You just need to communicate in a few sentences exactly what you want.

**Step 4:** Review the output generated by the platform and give a few more prompts if you are not satisfied with it.

**Step 5:** Once you have the desired website design, you can publish it directly with a subdomain created by the tool. If you have an existing domain, you can connect the website with it.

# How Does Vibe Coding Compare to Traditional Coding Methods?

As a developer you must be aware of all the intricacies involved in traditional coding methods. To help you understand Vibe Coding better and identify if you can try it out, both these methods have been differentiated based on the following parameters:

| Parameters           | Vibe Coding                                                                 | Traditional Coding                                                                 |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Technical Knowledge (Coding) | Requires little to no coding knowledge to generate codes and create simple and basic websites or apps. | Requires in-depth knowledge of programming languages (Java, Python, etc.) to create simple and advanced apps and websites. |
| Development Speed     | Speeds up the code generation process with AI assistance.                  | Time-consuming process as it involves manual code writing and testing.             |
| Learning Curve        | Easy to learn as it doesn’t require much coding knowledge.                 | Takes time to understand the programming languages and the whole development process. |
| Code Quality          | Code structure and readability may be compromised as it is AI-generated code. | Code quality is good as the developers write code, mitigating the structure and readability issues. |
| Code Testing          | Vibe coders lack in-depth technical knowledge to test AI-generated code and fix bugs. | Developers can test, debug, and run code, creating robust and scalable applications. |
| Solution Orientation  | Vibe coding applies the existing solution over the internet while creating applications. | Innovative applications can be created and designed by the developers.             |


